# ABDSM
This code is for an agent-based disease spread model which is built on the SydneyGMA activity/travel agent-based microsimulation model to simulate the COVID-19 disease spread. A short explanation of the model is brought here.

It stochastically models disease transmission due to inter-agent interactions while travelling and engaging in out-of-home activities, as well as within-household interactions. It is sensitive to a wide range of disease control strategies affecting these interactions. Seven classes of agents are included in the transmission model: 1) Susceptible agents (S), who are not in contact with infectious agents and are subject to be infected, 2) Exposed agents, who are infected agents but in the incubation period (latent) of the disease, 3) Infectious agents, who are contagious, 4) Quarantined agents, who are infected agents quarantined by health care authorities, 5) Quarantined family members, who are the family members of at least one infected and quarantined agent, 6) Dead agents, who are the infected persons, either in quarantine or not, that have died, and 7) Recovered agents, who are infected persons, either in quarantine or not, who have recovered.

The susceptible agents may come into contact with contagious agents and then may acquire the infection probabilistically and move to the exposed state. Exposed agents remain non-contagious for a given incubation period. In our simulation, the incubation period is a parameter that should be calibrated. At the end of the incubation period, agents will become contagious and move into the infectious class. Infectious agents, both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases, become quarantined by health care authorities probabilistically. Thereby, they move into the quarantined class. Obviously, non-quarantined agents are the main source of disease spread in the system. Upon discovery of an infected agent, not only does the health care authority quarantine them, but they also quarantine their family members as they have a high chance of being exposed to the disease and may be in their incubation period. The quarantined family members who are infected will move into the Quarantine class. Quarantined agents may respond to treatment and recover, and move to recovered class, or die, and move to the dead class. Albeit, for COVID-19, infected but non-quarantined agents have also a small chance to die and move to the dead class, but we ignore this possibility in this paper. On recovery from infection, individuals are assumed to be immunised. All the infected agents, either quarantined or not, will be recovered after 14 days which is the typical recovery period of COVID-19.

Required data and resurces:
1- The daily and cumulative data which are used for the model calibration are reported in  NSW Government (2020). 
2- The code is built on SydneyGMA. SydneyGMA has been originally developed for Toronto, Canada and then it has been transferred to few other cities worldwide. For more information about the model refer to https://tmg.utoronto.ca/doc/1.4/gtamodel/index.html. We cannot make the SydneyGMA publicly available as it is in the discretion of the inventors. Also, this model uses the EMME package for auto and transit assignment as well as estimation of travel time where EMME is not an open source software. Furthermore, we have borrowed the road and transit network of Sydney from “Transport for NSW“ organization, and we are not allowed to share it beyond the research team.   

References:
NSW Government. NSW COVID-19 cases data | Data.NSW. 2020 [cited 18 Nov 2020]. Available: https://data.nsw.gov.au/nsw-covid-19-data/cases
Travel Management Group (TMG). GTAModel V4.0 Introduction | Travel Modelling Group Documentation. 2020 [cited 27 Nov 2020]. Available: https://tmg.utoronto.ca/doc/1.4/gtamodel/index.html
